♪[music]♪
So what we want to do is we want to
display our actual order here.
So we have the sort of object here which
has all the keys in the number of pounds
I want, but we want to actually display
that to a user in a way that's meaningful.
So we want to show them how many pounds
they've bought, what type of fish they
bought, and allow them to remove it from
their order, show them the cumulative
total of that one line item as well as
show them the entire reduced total of
their entire order.
So how do we do that? Well, our order
component here, which if you go into
app.js, you're going to see our Order
component, and it needs two things.
First, it needs all the fishes because
we're going to need things like the name
of it and the price of it. So we'll pass
it to that. So "this.state.fishes".
And we also need the order itself, so
we'll say "order = ".
And you may be saying say like, "Why don't
I just pass the entire state down?" Well,
I probably will have more stuff in the
future in my application and this is
probably not a good practice just to pass
your entire state all the way down.
Just pick and choose the actual things
that you need, especially when we get into
propTypes, that's going to come in handy.
Now let's go over to our Order component
here. And first of all, we need to replace
this paragraph tag with a div with a class
of "order-wrap". And then inside of that,
give yourself an 'h2' that says "Order" or
"Your Order," whatever you feel like
saying. Inside of here I want to show all
of my orders as well as the total,
so we need a couple variables actually to
work with before we return this JSX.
So right above in our 'return', I'm going to
make a new variable called "orderIds"
and that's going to be 'Object.keys()' of
'this.props.order', right? Because the order
got passed down via props and we want
an array of all of the keys.
Now I could just go ahead and put that in
here if I wanted with some curly brackets.
Load some type of fishes, and when I add
it to the order, you see that fish1,
fish2, that's getting added to my actual
order. But we don't just want to show
that, we want to show the total and
everything else along with it.
So along with 'orderIds', we want the
totals. So we say, "const total ="
and we're going to take this 'orderIds'
and 'reduce' it. And if you've never used
reduce() before, it allows you to loop over
an array and add up a whole bunch of
stuff, or just really return a new
something, an object, array, or something
like that. In our case, we're using a very
simple use case, which would be adding up
a bunch of things.
So we'll have a prevTotal and we'll have a
key for that. Use an arrow function here.
Then inside of it, we need the fish, which
is we have all of the fishes but we don't
have the one specific fish. So
"this.props.fish[key]", that's the fish1,
fish2, fish 3, etc., etc. We
need the count, how many of them did they
buy? So "const count = this.props.order[key]".
So if there is like
a 'fish1' in the order, it's going to tell
us how many they have purchased.
And then finally, we need to know is that
fish available? Because they may have
bought it, but then it might be removed
from the order at a later time.
Remember, this is a real time application
where things can change at any given
moment. So we check first is there a fish,
and then we also check if the fish status
is equal to available.
Now we simply just go ahead and add it up.
So we say if the fish is available then we
can go ahead and add it to the total.
So we return the prevTotal.
So the amount that we added up in the last
run plus and we're going to take the count
times the fish.price or zero. And why you
do that or zero, that's because
sometimes the fish will be in our order
but then it will be deleted,
and we don't want to...we want to make
sure that we don't run into any issues
there. Otherwise, we're just going to
return the prevTotal, and why do we do
that? Because if it's available, we'll
return the new amount, otherwise,
we'll return the last amount.
This reduce() right here, we need to start
with a starting value.
So you need to make sure we put a comma
zero here, and then we should have a value
called total. So let's take it and
we'll put it in here, just as total, and
when we add things to our order,
fishes.order. "Cannot read property 'fish1' of
undefined," and that is because we forgot
this is not...it's not "this.props.fish" and
if I had propTypes, that would have
caught it, we will go into that in
just a second. It's "fishes", and save that.
Now you're going to load some in,
add them to order... there we go.
So as I am adding in my values here, the
amount that we're paying is just going up
and up and up. So that's good.
Now, it's not formatted properly,
so how do we do that? Well, we know in
our helpers file, you have this function
called formatPrice. So we can just
import formatPrice function from our
helpers file. And then we'll go down to
our total here, grab that,
add it , add to order. Here we go, looking
good. Just get this formatted properly or
get rid of this 'orderIds', don't need it.
We'll have an unordered list with
the class of "order".
And inside of that, give yourselves a
list item with a class of "total". Inside
of that, give yourself a 'strong' tag that
says "Total:", and below that we're going
to move our formatted price total up below
it just so that some of the CSS that I've
written for you will kick and it'll look a
little bit better. Let's take a look.
Very nice. Okay, so let's do the other
part, which is displaying each individual
fish that is currently in our order. Now,
in order to render out each of the
individual items from our order, I'm not
going to make a separate component in this
case, and I could. And if you're thinking
that, you can go ahead.
However, I wanted to show you another
thing that's called a render function,
where sometimes it doesn't make sense to
create an entirely new component where you
have to pass everything down, but you also
know that it's a lot to put a lot of code
in just one render function in here and it
starts to get a little bit overwhelming.
So what we could also do is shell out some
of the work to a separate render function
that just lives inside of our order
component. So I'll show you what I mean
here. Let's go to this order here and
let's grab some curly brackets.
And we have this array of orderIds. So
we're going to grab all of those orderIds
here and we are going to loop over
them with a 'map'.
Now, usually we would have something like
this, a key, and then we would return a
paragraph with that actual key in it. And
you don't have to do this because I'm
going to delete it. But I'll just show
you, let's use a list item because we're
inside of an unordered list. And there's
some fishes in, and you see that now when
I add the items in, it's yelling at me for
not having a key. That's fine,
don't worry about that. But now when I add
them, it will render it out for us. But
I've got a lot more to put on in here, and
in also we're going to do animation in a
future video where we animate in this
value right here, and that's going to take
a lot more code as well.
So I don't want to do it right in here,
I'm going to shell it off to a render
function. So I'm going to delete this and
we're just going to say,
"this.renderOrder". And what that does is
it says all right, renderOrder, and we can
go up here right before our render and
we'll make our renderOrder() function.
And I just made this method up, it's not a
specific one to React,
I can call it whatever I want. That will
give us the key for each one, and then we
need a couple lines here, we need the
actual fish, say,
"this.props.fishes[key];" And then we also
need the count, which is going to be
"this.props.fishes[key];" Actually not
"fishes", it's going to be "order",
because that will tell us how many
they have ordered.
Now, if there is no fish or the
fish.status is equal to unavailable,
then we need to return a list item. And
we're going to do this because we're going
to be able to delete a fish. And if
someone has it in their basket and then we
delete the fish or we mark it as
"unavailable" then they need to know that
they can't buy that fish because it's no
longer available, right? And we give this
one a key of "", and again, that will help
React determine which actual domino this
is, and then inside of that we'll say,
"Sorry," and we'll say, "Fish is no longer
available!"
Now, we can actually take it one step
further and say, "If there is a fish,"
then we can say the fish.name. So if I
have like Pacific Halibut and I mark it as
unavailable, we'll say, "Pacific Halibut
is no longer available."
Otherwise, if someone totally
deletes the fish entirely from our
inventory management system that we're
going to build, then we won't know the
name of it because it will be deleted and
we'll just say "fish". So if there's a fish,
put the fish's name there, otherwise,
just put the word, "Fish is no longer
available."
Good, then let's go down here and we will
return the actual list item for when the
fish is available. Key equals key. Inside
of that we'll give ourselves a span
where we say "count lbs", fish.name, so "3lbs
of Pacific Halibut." And then we'll
have a span with the class of "price", where
we will not just give the fish.price
because that is just one pound, but we'll
take the count and multiply that by the
fish.price. And then we'll wrap that
entire thing here in our formatPrice
function. See where we're at right now,
add it in, add some stuff to our order.
We got an error, "Cannot read property
'props' of undefined." This is the exact
problem that we were having earlier.
I use 'this' inside of a function that
wasn't render(). What do we do when you
want to be able to access 'this' inside of a
method? You need to bind it. So we can
grab a constructor or run super(), and we'll
say "this.renderorder =
this.renderOrder.bind(this);" And with that
one line this renderOrder() function should
now be bound to Order and we'll able to
access thing on Order, such as 'props'.
Load it in.
Oh, you have to know how to spell
"return." You're probably screaming at me
this whole time while I was coding.
Otherwise, JavaScript won't work.
Load it in, and there we go, one pound of
Pacific Halibut, one pound of Lobster, and
then when I add additional ones,
it will just keep adding up.